feature: add scroller examples (#46)
vaadin/docs: articles/design-system/components/scroller/index.asciidoc

---
title: Scroller
layout: tabbed-page
tab-title: Usage
page-links: \
https://github.com/vaadin/vaadin-ordered-layout-flow/releases/tag/{moduleMavenVersion:com.vaadin:vaadin-ordered-layout-flow}[{moduleMavenVersion:com.vaadin:vaadin-ordered-layout-flow}], \

> https://github.com/vaadin/vaadin-ordered-layout/releases/tag/v{moduleNpmVersion:vaadin-ordered-layout}[{moduleNpmVersion:vaadin-ordered-layout}]

Reviewer: Page links should be updated to aligh with latest master, see https://github.com/vaadin/docs/commit/83fdb81ece9d97809bd6f939f401e668aa0a5146

Author: Updated.

Reviewer: The Flow version link still links to 404. It should link to the vaadin-flow-components repo

---

= Scroller

// tag::description[]
Scroller is a component container for creating scrollable areas in the UI.
// end::description[]

[.example]
--

[source, typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/scroller/scroller-basic.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/scroller/ScrollerBasic.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

== Scroll Direction
Scroller has four different scroll directions: *vertical*, *horizontal*, *both* and *none*.
Scroller’s default scroll direction is *both*.

== Vertical

> When the scroll position is set to vertical, the user can scroll vertically if the content overflows the container vertically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the scroll position is vertical, the user can scroll vertically if the content overflows the container vertically.
```

> Content that overflows horizontally is clipped and inaccessible, so the width of the content should be set to 100%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Content that overflows horizontally is clipped and inaccessible, so the width of the content should be 100%.
```

== Horizontal

> When the scroll position is set to horizontal, the user can scroll horizontally if the content overflows the container horizontally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the scroll position is horizontal, the user can scroll horizontally if the content overflows the container horizontally.
```

> Content that overflows vertically is clipped and inaccessible, so the height of the content should be set to 100%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Content that overflows vertically is clipped and inaccessible, so the height of the content should be 100%.
```

[NOTE]
====

> Horizontal scrolling should be used with caution, as it is much less common and may be difficult for users to recognize and use, especially on non-mobile devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use horizontal scrolling with caution, as it is much less common and may be difficult for users to recognize and use, in particular on non-mobile devices.
```

====

== Desktop
Excluding Grids, horizontal scrolling is not commonly used in desktop and/or business applications as it can be non-obvious and cumbersome to use.

> We recommend using Buttons to help users notice and navigate horizontally scrollable sections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use Buttons to help users notice and navigate horizontally scrollable sections.
```

> For horizontally scrollable lists, it is considered good practice to indicate how many list items there are and which items the user is currently viewing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For horizontally scrollable lists, it is considered good practice to display how many list items there are and which items the user is viewing at the moment.
```

== Mobile
Scrolling horizontally or swiping is more common on mobile, for example for navigation purposes.
It can also be used to preserve vertical space, for example in situations where the user is exploring less important information, such as shortcuts or images.

[.example]
--

[source, typescript]
----
include::{root}/frontend/demo/component/scroller/scroller-mobile.ts[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=TypeScript]
----

[source, java]
----
include::{root}/src/main/java/com/vaadin/demo/component/scroller/ScrollerMobile.java[render,tags=snippet,indent=0,group=Java]
----

--

== Both

> When the scroll position is set to *Both* (default), the user can scroll vertically and horizontally if the content overflows in both directions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the scroll position is *Both* (default), the user can scroll vertically and horizontally if the content overflows in both directions.
```
